Happy Friday.
Thank you very much for attending
the enterprise messaging session.
My name is Michael McMillian.
I'm one of the segment managers here
in Developer Relations covering the
groupware and messaging solutions.
We have a really neat
session for you this morning.
I'm going to introduce JD Mankowski.
And JD leads our professional
services team here at Apple.
And he's going to go through,
run through some of the third party
groupware and messaging solutions
that we have on the platform today,
as well as end it with a couple
technical case studies with some
real life examples of people that
are using these solutions today.
So with that, JD.
Hello, those lights are shiny.
Good morning.
My name is JD Mankovsky.
Like Michael said,
I run the enterprise professional
services team for the U.S.
and we even extend to Tokyo quite often.
So if you've seen the
Azora project on Monday,
the deployment,
my team was really doing a lot of
work there in terms of Kerberos and
AD integration with Joel's help.
So we do a lot of enterprise deployments,
XServe rate, XN.
You know, we do a lot of just large
enterprise deployment around
our storage and servers.
So we wanted to talk today about
enterprise messaging solutions.
And it was funny,
I hope you guys all had a good
evening last night at the beer bash.
So real happy to see you
guys here this morning.
I know it's hard.
But, you know, doesn't it feel great
to still get carded,
you know, when you get to the beer bash?
It makes you feel younger.
You call your wife or a friend and say,
hey, believe it or not,
I just still got carded.
So anyway, let's get going on the
Enterprise Messaging Solution.
So first I want to kind of
give you an update on clients,
Mac OS X groupware clients.
And then we're going to
talk about more server-side
solutions around collaboration.
And then we'll have two case studies,
two customers who have deployed
actually OS X server-based
collaboration solutions on the platform.
So first,
what I wanted to do is kind of give
you an enterprise client update.
And the first one I wanted
to talk about is Microsoft.
How many of you here have
Exchange deployments in the room?
Yep, it's a lot.
So we wanted, you know,
Microsoft was kind enough to kind
of give us some slides on their
upcoming Service Pack 2 for Entourage,
and we wanted to talk about that,
as well as a few other things.
So first, as you know,
there's quite a few client
options for Exchange to connect.
Most of you use Entourage 2004,
and again, we'll talk in a few seconds of
what's upcoming in Service Pack 2.
A lot of people on the IT side
use Remote Desktop Connection,
Virtual PC as well, great product.
And then for the OS 9 clients,
some of you still run Classic and
are running Outlook 2001 for the Mac.
How many people here still
run Classic and Outlook 2001?
Yeah, so very minimal, so probably 10,
15 people in the room.
And then, of course, Outlook Web Access,
just great for, you know,
when you're on the road
to connect to your email.
So this is the interface, of course,
through Outlook Web Access.
You know, it's a good interface.
The... The nice thing that
we've put together with the
Active Directory plugin,
I don't know if you've ever set that up,
but it's great.
You can do single sign-on through
Safari using the Spinego security API.
So, you know,
you should be able to just single sign-on
right through your Outlook Web Access if
you're using Safari and have the
Active Directory plugin set up properly.
So it's kind of neat.
Remote Desktop Connection,
this is the interface.
A lot of IT people I know,
a lot of Windows IT people that
are now carrying PowerBooks,
and they're managing all their
PCs and all their services.
servers through remote
desktop connection.
Entourage 2004.
So this product shipped last year and,
you know, that's part of the 2004,
Microsoft 2004 suite.
And, you know, it does a lot of things in
terms of email synchronization,
calendar,
address book via the web dev protocol,
you know, scheduling,
form-based authentication support,
you know, some core delegation,
but there's more to come.
This is the interface you can see here,
you know, very standard interface.
In this case,
we're basically setting up a meeting
amongst multiple people with,
you know, free busy support.
So, in Office 2004, you know, again,
last year, I don't know how many
people came to this session,
but there was a lot of great feedback
that was given to the Microsoft team
in terms of missing features in the
first release of Entourage 2004.
And, you know, we're really happy because
Microsoft has been,
you know, the team has been really
hard at work in delivering,
you know, an awesome service pack 2
release for Entourage 2004.
And we actually have two of the
Microsoft people here in the room.
They're sitting right in
this corner over there.
And they'll be glad to, you know,
take some of your questions, you know,
after the session.
You can go and talk to them.
They really want to hear
your feedback in terms of,
you know, even more functionality
later down the road.
So what's coming in
Service Pack 2 is faster syncs,
more calendaring support, public folders.
So there's been some issues with
public folders where some mount,
some don't.
And they've definitely improved
the public folder support.
Mail quota usage.
So I hear that a lot where you've
got mail quotas on the Windows side,
but that doesn't work on the Mac side.
So mail quota support.
Browseable Global Address Books.
So that's another great feature.
Sometimes it works, sometimes it didn't.
So that's in there.
Great.
And by the way,
they actually have a great article,
I don't know if you've seen that,
but if you go to their
tech article library,
they actually have some information on
how to integrate our address book as
well within a Microsoft AD environment.
So you should definitely check that
out as well because some people like,
in terms of icing support or you name it,
it's just great to be able to use
the Apple address book as well,
as well as the Microsoft address book.
Multiple Calendar and
address book support.
So that was a big feature.
Conversation grouping as well as
sharing permissions on mailbox
folders with another user.
So this is a short list of
the upcoming features that are
going to be in Service Pack 2.
So again, for more information,
Microsoft will be announcing this product
in the second half and shipping this
product in the second half of 2005.
So go to their website.
I'm sure you'll see a lot of
press release around this as
soon as it's made available.
If you're interested in perhaps getting,
some of you might already
be seeded with a product,
some of you who aren't,
please talk to your Microsoft rep.
I mean, I'm sure they'll be there.
I'm sure there's ways for you
to get access to the software
and test it internally.
So if you're a big enterprise
shop and you definitely use,
you have a lot of Macs and you use
Exchange and you use Entourage,
make sure you talk to your Microsoft rep
and get on the list for upcoming
seeds or newer seeds down the road.
I mean,
we have a lot of customers who do that.
So if you're not on the list,
please make sure to get on it.
On the server side,
the requirements are very simple.
You have to have an Exchange 2000
server with service pack 2 minimum.
I'm sure pretty much everyone
is running that except the ones
that are still running 5.5.
And then you've got to have
Outlook Web Access enabled.
Of course,
WebDAV must be enabled and then LDAP.
On the Microsoft Messenger side,
Microsoft is also hard at work on the
Messenger 5.0 product for the Macintosh.
And again,
that's going to really add a lot
of value in terms of collaboration
amongst Mac and Windows users,
and that's something that was
missing on the Mac platform.
And Messenger 5.0 is
going to have some great,
more secure real-time communication
built into the product.
And again, that will also be available
in the second half of 2005.
How many people here use Messaging?
Okay, excellent.
So some of the new features:
improved security,
live communication server support,
just better integration in terms
of address book integration,
and tab viewing,
as well as a new and improved
user interface to take advantage
of the Mac OS X look and feel.
And on the server side requirement,
you'll need the
Live Communication Server 2005
Service Pack 1,
as well as support for the
Live Communication Server 2005
Public IM connectivity.
And of course,
separate CALs are required for that.
So, I mean, you saw it at the keynote,
you know, on Monday when Steve announced,
you know, Mac OS X for Intel,
running on Intel.
You saw that, you know,
Microsoft is there.
I mean, they've committed to having
the full Office suite on
native on Mac OS X for Intel.
And you saw the commitment
from Adobe as well.
So, you know,
really we're very happy with
the partnership and how things,
you know, the relationship between
Microsoft and Apple.
And they, you know,
they continue to develop, you know,
some great products.
You know,
I've been to the Mac BU in Cupertino.
I mean, it's an awesome team that works
really hard on great Mac products.
So, you know, they're really to,
they're ready to listen to your feedback
if there's more feedback in terms of,
you know, better support and better
integration with Mac OS X.
Some of the resources available
off the Microsoft website,
you know, Microsoft.com/exchange,
Microsoft.com/mac.
Most of you are probably
familiar with those URLs,
but I just wanted to make
sure to put those up there,
because I know there's a lot
of new people in the crowd
that this is their first WWDC.
So, again, just some great URLs,
and those will be made
available through ADC as well.
The second big client deployment
that we have is IBM Lotus Notes.
So I wanted to talk-- give
you an update on IBM as well.
Current status.
So as you know,
they released last year 653 and 654.
653 added Active Directory support.
There was a bug previously where AD,
and there were some issues with AD.
So they fixed that in 653.
They actually even released a 654.
And that fully supports Mac OS 10.3.
and they have a 655 that's upcoming
that will fully support Tiger.
and they also have a Note 7.0
that is in beta right now.
It's in beta 3 and that can be downloaded
off the lotus.com/ldd link that you
see at the bottom of the screen here.
They also, like I said,
they have the 7.0 coming with same time
presence awareness that will be built in.
They're all going to have
a Lotus Team Workplace 7.0.
So right now they're at, I believe,
at release version 6.5.1.
And they're going to add Safari support
for both the Team Workplace as well
as the Lotus Domino Document Manager.
And so both of those will fully
support Safari in their next release.
and then their Workplace
Collaboration Solutions,
Workplace Management Client will be
also upcoming with Mac OS X support.
And here's a screenshot of
their lotus.com/ldd website.
So they definitely have a lot
of information off that URL,
so please check it out.
So let's give you an
update on Novell as well.
Well, I mean, the good news is, you know,
Novell is cross-platform.
So, you know, many, many years ago,
there was a lot of issues where
Groupwise was -- there was some
features on the Mac that were not,
you know, on par with the
Windows version and so forth.
Now they've gone, you know, all Java.
So, you know,
really it's a cross-platform client.
And it's available, you know,
through -- they have an IM client.
They have a Web Access client.
All those just run today on Mac OS X.
So there's not much to announce.
They do have a Sequoia
-- their code name,
Sequoia release, which will be coming out
in the summer of 2005.
and for resources around Novell,
please check out their product
page and some of their cool
solutions at the following URLs.
So that's a quick update
on the client side.
And what I want to spend the rest of
the presentation is talk about server
solutions around the Mac OS X platform.
And the two products that we've had
really good success with within the
enterprise are the Cario product and
the Stalker CommuniGate Pro product.
And those are two solutions,
two server-based solutions that
run on Mac OS X that run on XServe.
And we definitely have
a lot of customers.
We've deployed quite a few
Cario solutions over the past 12
months for medium-sized business.
And customers have been, you know,
very happy.
And Cario is always hard at work
in adding new functionality.
So, you know,
if you haven't talked to them,
they're actually in the data center
and they've been there all week.
So I strongly recommend
that before you leave.
I think the data center probably
closes around 3 or 4 today that
you go and talk to them and see
what their product has to offer.
And we'll talk about their upcoming
release in just a few seconds.
But really, Cario Mail Server 6 is a
complete collaboration solution.
We've had newspapers that
were running Exchange 5.5 and,
you know, they were getting hacked.
I mean, it was pretty bad.
And so what they decided
to do is simply migrate.
They've got this great migration.
They've got this great migration tool
that migrates all your Exchange mail
into this Cario Mail Server.
And it supports full calendaring
as well as full email support.
On the PC side, you load a Mappy adapter.
And the PC people,
the PC clients keep using Outlook.
And on the Mac side,
they fully support Entourage.
So you can just plug in your Entourage
right into this Cario backend and get
access to your calendaring and your,
you know, your free/busy and, you know,
the stuff that you're accustomed to with,
you know,
an Exchange 5.5 or 2000 backend.
So they do share contacts,
share calendars.
They've got built-in anti-spam and
anti-virus built into the product.
You know,
the pricing is really interesting.
And they fully support IE as well
as Safari for the webmail interface.
Webmail interface is very, very rich.
And if you look at some of the reviews,
PC Magazine, you know,
best small business mail server of 2004.
So again, they target small to
medium sized business.
They've got over 7,000 customers
and over 400,000 mailboxes.
They're based in California, Santa Clara.
Founded in 2001 and about 50% of
their sales are Mac OS X Server sales.
And what's kind of also very neat is it's
a simple download for you to test with.
And by the way,
the 30-day evaluation also
fully includes support,
which is kind of neat for a company
to offer free support for 30 days.
That's kind of a nice thing to have
when you're evaluating a product.
The admin mail interface
is absolutely gorgeous,
and it runs on Mac, on Linux,
and on Windows.
So it's very, very nice, very rich,
and very simple to administrate.
And of course,
another nice thing they added
is they added full support
for AD on the back end,
because most of you are
not-- if you have AD,
you're not going to move off of AD.
We understand that.
And they also have full support
for Apple Open Directory built in.
So again, a few features they support.
They support the email client
look and feel on Safari,
drag and drop messages.
Through the web interface,
you can actually drag and drop
messages and drag and drop mailboxes.
Out of office reply, junk mail,
and then that entourage
connectivity that we talked about.
They have an upcoming product,
which is in beta right now,
that you can download at this beta URL,
the beta_section.html.
And their 6.1 release will support iCal,
Firebird, Sunbird, Calendar support,
a MAPI connector.
What that means is, again,
they already have a MAPI connector,
but now they're going to have an
offline MAPI connector support built in.
SyncML for people who use SyncML phones.
Free/Busy support built in
through the webmail interface.
They had Free/Busy on the FAT clients,
but now you can actually
set up a meeting,
a Free/Busy meeting,
through the web interface.
Anti-spam and also two antivirus.
You can actually have two antivirus
engines running to totally eliminate
antivirus and anti-spam through
and And then later down the road,
later this year, they're hard at work at
supporting XAN support.
So we can actually build a really
nice cluster-based mail server.
'Cause redundancy is important,
we understand in the enterprise.
And so we've been telling them
that they need to add XAN support.
So they're already pretty hard
at work in adding XAN support
with Kareo mail server.
And that'll allow it to scale to
much larger numbers down the road.
Resources, again,
if you just simply go to Cario.com,
you know, from there you can see all the
different products they have.
And again, they're in the data center,
so please go and talk to them.
The second product that I wanted
to talk about is Stocker Software.
and their product is
called Communigate Pro.
And Communigate Pro has
been around for many,
many, many years.
And again,
they really-- Communigate developed
some pretty high-end mail solutions.
Their target are ISPs, telcos,
large education,
large enterprise markets.
They have over 9,000 customers
and 60 million active users.
They're also based in California.
They have offices in Japan, Germany,
and Russia as well.
And they've supported
the Mac over 11 years.
And they have over 1,600
customers running on Communigate.
Again, they support their
standard-based email solution,
but they also have calendaring,
scheduling, real-time communication.
They even have voice over IP.
They also support SIP.
So you can actually deploy,
communicate solution,
and have a full SIP phone
deployment with that solution.
So it's really more than
just email and calendaring.
It's really a full
solution for an enterprise.
They also have some advanced security.
They fully support SMIME encryption,
even through the web interface.
And they've got this
web-based administration tool.
Some people like it, some people less,
but most people like the web interface.
And again, it's flexible.
It supports dynamic cluster,
active-active,
through an NFS cluster or even with
a built-in or with an additional
cluster file system underneath it.
You can build a pretty powerful
clustering back-end server solution.
And what's interesting is
they run on over 30 platforms.
So that's pretty amazing.
Mac OS X, Unix, Linux, Windows.
Of course,
we want you to run on Mac OS X.
That's probably why you're here today.
and then they also have an
encrypted message store as well.
So your messages,
even though they're stored
on a large storage array,
those messages are actually encrypted
on the storage backend as well.
Again,
they support a large variety of clients.
They have iCal support.
They're adding Entourage support in the
version 5 of the CommuniGate Pro product,
which we'll be shipping later this year.
So they're also hard at
work on their next release.
And of course,
they have Palm support as well for
people who definitely want to read
their emails through their PDAs.
Documentation.
Again, they've got a lot of
documentation off their website.
They've got some great
white papers available.
So you should definitely check it out.
And if you want to contact them,
Mark Freberg is a great resource.
He's Director of the
Channel Sales for CommuniGate Pro.
And you can get in touch with
him at mfreberg@stalker.com.
So what I want to get into now is
some technical case studies where we
have some customers who are actually
running Cario and CommuniGate Pro.
So we wanted to bring over
first the Children's Hospital of
Oakland Research Institute,
Ben Hanes, who's a senior systems
analyst over there.
And they're going to talk
about their mail deployment.
Ben?
Thanks, JD.
Having a great time here at WWDC.
I hope all you are as well.
By show of hands,
how many guys are in IT now?
Okay.
And how many of you would rather
be doing something different?
Okay, that's because we enjoy what we do,
right?
And we like to engage in new challenges
and find new solutions to those
challenges and keep it interesting,
keep it fun.
So the Children's Hospital and
Research Center at Oakland is
one of the largest,
busiest,
and most comprehensive medical center
between Los Angeles and Seattle.
For over 90 years,
we've been providing top notch
medical care for children
in the region and beyond.
The Children's
Hospital Oakland Research Institute,
which is where I work,
has 43 principal investigators,
over 300 basic and
clinical research staff,
and an annual budget
approaching $50 million.
We do a lot of research
on pediatric diseases,
but a lot of our investigations
do benefit patients of all ages.
So to give you an idea
of our infrastructure,
we've got over 400 users,
and we maintain that
with a staff of three,
I'm one of them.
We've got a completely mixed environment.
We've got essentially half of
our systems are on Macintosh,
and half of those are on
Windows with a few Linux.
And IREX is kind of mixed in.
And we really find that
this is a real good balance.
It poses some very
interesting challenges to us.
And it gives us a lot to work with,
but we do enjoy it quite a bit.
And especially with the
tools that Apple provides,
makes it really,
really good for us to be able to
administer our Macintosh environment.
And along with the remote desktop
connection from Microsoft as well,
we're able to maintain this large number
of computers with our small staff.
We do a lot of cross training
between our IT staff.
We essentially focus on a
particular project and show
each other how to maintain that.
We generally support everything
from desktop and AV support all
the way to the research acquisition
and deployment of new systems.
Our main focus, our main goal,
is to provide the computer tools that
allow for scientific discovery so that
our researchers and our scientists really
have the tools that they need to get the
job done and not try to impose any of
what we think their computers should be.
We really let them make the
decisions on what they like to use.
I'm the lead Macintosh manager dealing
with high level Mac desktop support,
Mac OS X Server,
and of course the email server.
Now we looked at getting
a new email system.
There are a few things that we
looked at that we wanted to conquer.
Since all of our funding
comes from grants,
60% of which is from the
National Institutes of Health,
we really needed something that would
allow us to communicate with all of our
collaborators and our administrative
staff and we needed something
that was going to be bulletproof.
Something that was going to be up all the
time and never have any problems with it.
We also wanted to make sure that the
system that we chose used open standards.
We didn't want to tie ourselves
into a proprietary system.
So that we can have a lot more options
for what we choose to mix with and also
give us more options in the future.
So when we're looking at what we needed,
the first thing, of course,
we want to make sure that we were
protected from malicious attacks,
virus attacks.
And of course,
Apple has essentially proven themselves
to be very good in this area.
We wanted to make sure that we picked
a solution that had essentially
proven itself in the market,
something that was a solid system
a lot of people were using.
We looked at Exchange initially and
because of these things that I mentioned,
we started engaging in
discussions with Apple.
They suggested that we look
into Communigate and we're
very happy that we did.
We started talking to those guys.
We specced out a system from them,
including the rack, the UPC, the cables,
the entire package, including training.
We didn't actually even need
any consulting teams to come
in and show us how to do this
because it was easy enough to do.
We looked at about $60,000.
When we looked at a comparable
system from Exchange,
and that would include a
lot of consultant help to
help us tie it all together,
it was about $600,000.
So essentially it was
a no-brainer for us.
We did also look at the cluster
solution from Communigate,
and it does cost quite a bit more.
And we knew that it was going
to be tough to convince our
finance committees that that was,
you know,
that we were just going to spend
a whole lot of money on it.
So we designed sort of a scale solution,
a stepwise solution where we
would get the single server,
and then we could migrate
up to the dynamic cluster.
And because of the
scalability of Communigate,
it was trivial to do that.
So that's the direction
that we took so far.
And so far, you know,
the single server has been
doing quite well for us.
After we got the system, of course,
our first task was to migrate all of
our users from our existing email server
at the time we were using Groupwise.
The CommuniGate Pro provides a
really great command line tool
to migrate everything using IMAP,
so we just moved all the mail over.
We also grabbed a third party tool
from Wingra Technologies that allowed
us to take the address book calendar
that was in the Groupwise system
and import it into a PST file.
We then put that into Outlook and
people copied over the data that they
needed into the CommuniGate Pro system.
We did engage Stalker for
training for our IT staff,
so we're all very well versed
on how the system works.
This was several days of training
and they did a great job there.
Also, went to the Apple training
for Apple certification.
They provide some fabulous training.
If you ever get a chance to go
down there and do the training,
I definitely recommend it.
Then we had to train our
users on some of the nuances,
on the differences.
Mostly it was, "Hey,
here's some features that -- here's
some things you couldn't do before and
now you can do so much more." It was
really exciting for us and for our users
to be able to engage in that dialogue.
And then about a year into it,
it's been about two years since we've
had this system and about a year into it,
we engaged with the
Apple consulting team.
JD and his team came out and
helped us set up a failover
solution with the XServe RAID.
And we now have a nice system
that is sort of on the direction
towards the cluster that provides
essentially about a 20 second downtime,
which is pretty good for us.
Our users don't even notice it.
The pager doesn't go off,
which is really nice.
I do get an email and appropriate
action is taken the following day or
whenever we are able to go deal with it.
But since we're running off of
a stable server at that point,
we can kind of deal with it
in the way we feel necessary.
[Transcript missing]
Thank you, Ben.
So now I'd like to introduce
Jeff Butterfield from
George Lucas Educational Foundation.
And Jeff is going to talk to us
about their carrier deployment.
Thank you, Jeff.
Great.
Thanks.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Let's see,
figure out how this clicker works.
So probably a lot of you
have heard of George Lucas.
He has a project out this summer.
Herbie Fully Loaded.
I'm sure you're familiar with it.
We get to discover how good
Herbie becomes bad Herbie,
which I'm looking forward to.
But not many people have heard of the
George Lucas Educational Foundation.
We were started in 1992 with a focus
at that time on educational technology.
Then in about 1995,
we kind of examined what we were
doing and we changed our focus to talk
about trying to bring the innovative
educational programs and some of
the things that were happening in
isolation out to the whole community.
So primarily,
when you say nonprofit to people,
they really don't know
what you're talking about.
So to make us more accessible,
think of us as a media organization.
We publish CD-ROMs, DVDs, textbooks.
Our main publishing
vehicle is our website.
We have edutopia.org.
We have,
I think it's over 500 articles now.
And it says 100 here,
but I think it's over 120
web documentaries online.
Last year, or excuse me,
about two years ago,
George went to one of these
chain bookstores with the
really large magazine racks.
And he came back from that and he said,
you know, I was looking at all these
magazines and there was not
one magazine about education.
Fast forward a year,
we're publishing a new monthly
magazine called "Edutopia."
So let me talk a little bit
then about the foundation,
because we've really changed
a lot in the last year.
Currently we have 30 users.
We have an IT staff of three,
which when I saw Ben's slide and it
said 400 users and three IT staff,
I went back and yelled at my people.
We look terrible.
But actually we're not really IT people.
My title says Director of IT,
but that's kind of fudging a bit.
One of my IT people is
really a Flash developer.
He does a little IT support on the side.
My other IT person,
she's more of a database
sales force engineer.
We do a little IT on the side.
Personally myself,
I do PHP and MySQL and a little
bit of FileMaker and compression
and XHTML and CSS and a little
bit of IT support on the side.
I'm probably the closest thing we
have to a traditional IT person.
we have to a traditional
systems administrator.
"I cut my teeth ten
years ago on Sendmail,
but as you can probably guess,
I don't have time for that
kind of thing anymore." So our
environment is made up largely,
because we're sort of a
media academic organization,
we have primarily Mac users.
Like I say, a lot of them come from
schools of education,
a lot of them now come
from print media houses.
We have a lot of our people on
the road at conferences like this,
or educational conferences,
NEC is a big one coming up.
So we have a lot of people on laptops.
We also have a wide
variety of email clients.
When we were smaller, this was okay.
People coming from academia
started using Eudora or
Mail App or Outlook or whatever,
and we didn't want to
interfere with that.
Whatever they used,
that they were comfortable with,
that was okay with me.
We're still doing that, but we'll see.
As we get larger, obviously,
that becomes more complicated.
So when we started the magazine,
this magazine has to be self-supporting.
It costs a lot of money
to produce a magazine.
And we had to hire a lot of new staff.
And some of the new staff
that came in were salespeople,
which as a nonprofit,
we never had salespeople.
And the salespeople came in and
they had certain expectations.
A lot of them came from organizations
that had Exchange servers.
And I went out, like Ben,
and priced Exchange servers.
And that really wasn't going
to be an option for us.
But these Outlook users had
things that they needed.
They wanted calendaring.
They wanted to still use Outlook.
They wanted to use their PC laptops.
And so in trying to accommodate that,
I needed,
I needed to come up with a solution.
And as I sort of mentioned,
we were largely a Mac house.
So what did I need?
I needed to find something
that would run on our Xserves,
because that's what we were using.
It needed to have all the capabilities
I'm sure you're familiar with:
anti-spam and anti-virus.
Now with more Windows users
than I was used to having,
the anti-virus was more
critical than ever.
But what was really key for me
was I needed for my other two
IT people to be able to administer
this email server really easily.
These were people without any real
background in mail server administration.
And I needed to go on
vacation at some point.
So I really needed them to be
comfortable with the interface.
So that's what happened.
We brought it in.
It worked for us.
The Outlook users are very happy.
As far as they know,
it just works the way they
were used to using it.
But what was new for our Mac users
is all of a sudden we have these
sort of enterprise level features
that we didn't have before.
And that was a big sea change for us.
Calendaring became much more important,
obviously, now that we went from the
staff of 15 to 20 people.
So bringing those folks in and
making everybody feel like we can
collaborate but still use our respective
email clients without interrupting
our workflow was quite a trick.
One of the things I've really
grown to appreciate Cario for
this year is web mail access.
I don't know how many of you,
about six months ago,
SBC Global and somebody else--
I can't think of who it was--
started to block port 25.
Port 25?
SMTP?
Is that right?
All of a sudden,
nobody can send mail from home, which,
as I mentioned,
I've got a lot of home users.
So that web client became
much more critical for us.
So I'll pass this back to JD.
But let me just take a moment to say,
as I mentioned earlier,
enterprise level is finally starting
to come for the smaller users.
And that's a real treat for us.
So thank you to Apple and
Cario for providing that.
Thank you.
So in summary, what we wanted to kind of
touch on is you've heard a lot
about Tiger Server this week.
And running the consulting team,
we hear a lot of customers who are
looking at collaboration and instant
messaging within their enterprise.
And I strongly recommend that you
really look at the iChat Jabber server,
because AOL,
and they tried doing that a few years
ago selling the IM Server Solution,
and it was very expensive
and really never took off.
And Apple really took it,
integrated it into the server,
puts this great interface on top of it.
And the integration of Jabber
Server with OS X makes it very easy,
even for the people who
are big window shops,
to take one or two Xers
and integrate it with your
AD backend or your LDAP backend,
and have this great cross-platform
messaging solution that is
secure within your enterprise.
And give the opportunity for your
users within your company to-- to
message and collaborate together without
sending all that confidential data
through AOL or someone else's servers.
And we all know we don't want to do that,
and a lot of you block
those ports already.
But let's give them the opportunity to
actually work and collaborate together.
And the Jabber server is just an
awesome product that's built into Tiger.
So we strongly recommend
that you look at that.
And there's Jabber clients for Linux,
there's Jabber clients for Windows,
so it's a really nice solution.
The WebLock server is another feature
that is great for sharing data.
I mean, you know, this is a big thing.
I mean, every time you know you have
information and you know what,
you're so busy during the day,
you can't share it with the rest of your
company or with the rest of your team.
And having a WebLock server up
there when you learn something
new and you want to post it,
it just makes it a lot easier.
And that's, again,
built into the product.
Directory services integration,
you heard a lot about that this week.
Again, you know, with AD, with LDAP,
even with, you know,
Linux back-end directories,
it just makes it a great
platform to run on.
And it's secure, which is, you know,
definitely very, very key.
And then, again,
with some third-party products
like Carrier and Communigate,
you know, if you're a small medium to
larger enterprises and you want
to look at a Mac OS X solution,
running your mail and
your collaboration tools,
you know,
we strongly recommend that you look at
those and give us some feedback as well.
You know,
we have an enterprise IT feedback
forum this afternoon at 1:00 for those
of you who are in enterprise and you
want to give feedback to Apple on how
we can do better in the enterprise,
please go over there.
If you do go to that session,
you will miss my advanced backup session,
so that is the unfortunate thing.
But if you do have feedback,
please go over there and give it
to our -- to the Apple people,
the executives that will be
there for that feedback session.